hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with the world's fastest meatballs
that's right i'm going to show you an
incredibly fast
no chop meatball mixture but wait that's
not all not only is this a no chop a
meatball recipe it's a no roll meatball
recipe and yet with all those shortcuts
it's still incredibly delicious and this
is how you make it okay so the best part
about a note chop meatball recipe is the
no chopping part so you're just gonna
take some ground beef and ground veal by
the way you can use any combination of
beef veal and pork so I crumble that in
a bowl alright and then in a small bowl
I'm going to take some plain breadcrumbs
I'm gonna add some milk one whole egg
some dry Italian herbs have a little
touch of granulated garlic little splash
of olive oil a big pinch of red pepper
flakes and then we're going to mix that
together with a whisk
by the way instead of calling this the
wet breadcrumb mixture we call it a
slurry it's shorter and sounds more
official so when you're slurries mix set
that aside and it's back to the bowl of
meat which we're now going to season
with salt black pepper and for me just a
little pinch of white pepper and if you
don't have it that's fine after the salt
and pepper I'm going to add some
Parmesan cheese the real stuff from
Parma Italy all right at that point
you're going to transfer your slurry
mixture into the meat Bowl and you're
going to give it a good mix and for my
next trick I'm going to turn a wooden
spoon into a rubber spatula in three two
all right so we're gonna mix that
together stop worrying about over mixing
this meatball recipe is indestructible
so I'm not saying intentionally over mix
it but once it's mixed stop so right
there I'm good I'm going to stop and
begin to shape the meatballs but before
we shape them I'm gonna need you to line
a baking sheet with some aluminum foil
and then brush it lightly with oil and
then for the most time-consuming step in
making meatballs the rolling except
we're not going to roll we're gonna
scoop besides being fast because it's no
chop this method uses a scoop instead of
rolling so you're just going to take one
of these small sorbet scoops they sell
them at every kitchen supply store and
by using this you can scoop a whole tray
like that in about five minutes and
you're going to get the same basic shape
except they're going to have extra nooks
cranny's which is an advantage all right
ask anybody that slices sandwich meat
surface area equals flavor okay so I
know they're a little rough around the
edges in fact I have like a pet nickname
for him I call these my Rough Riders and
yes I've heard through the grapevine
that DMX is not happy about that but
that's another story and this method
really does save a tremendous amount of
time so we're going to scoop all that
out it should fit on one sheet tray once
they're scooped we have to brown them
this can also be a time consuming step
some people fry some people baked we're
going to go even faster we're simply
going to brown those under a hot broiler
it's going to take like half the time
the baking or frying wood and as soon as
they're browned you're done now if
you're not interested in the world's
fastest meatballs but are fine with one
of the world's fastest meatballs you can
flip these over and brown the other side
if desired I didn't but feel free now
ideally as your meatballs were browning
you already had a pot of pasta sauce on
the stove already hot you're going to
transfer your meatballs in and as soon
as that comes back to a simmer you're
ready to eat so if your sauce is already
hot start to finish you can do this
recipe in about 3540 minutes okay and of
course if you have an extra 15 20
minutes maybe a half hour let the
meatball simmer in the sauce a little
bit it's only going to make the sauce
more flavorful so don't worry about
overcooking the meatballs or give them
getting tough not going to happen okay
and you know how this story ends right
we put it over spaghetti we top it with
some extra parmesan and we dig in there
you go the world's fastest meatballs
like I said despite saving all that time
with the know chopping and the know
rolling and the know frying or baking it
still comes out amazing and you have to
take my word for that but these were
really good a fabulous plate of
spaghetti meatballs of course it's not
going to be as epic as the traditional
methods but it's not supposed to be this
is like a weeknight you're craving
spaghetti and meatballs but you don't
have hours and hours to spend this is a
great alternative so I hope you give it
a try head over to food whooshes calm
for all the ingredient amounts and more
info as usual and as always enjoy
you